Generated configuration 9.2.2 (#165)
IBM/bamoe-docs: reference-guide/configuration.adoc

= Configuration Reference
:icons: image
:iconsdir: ../images/icons
include::../partials/attributes.adoc[]

== {PRODUCT} Configuration Properties

[cols="3,4,^,^"]
|===
^h|Property Name
^h|Description
h|Type
h|Default

a|kie.flyway.enabled
a|Toggles the execution of the Flyway initializer during application startup.
|boolean
|`true`

> a| kie.flyway.modules.`<module name>`.enabled

Author: Do we have a decent definition of a KIE module somewhere? I'm not sure if it is actually defined anywhere in the BAMOE docs.

> a| kie.flyway.modules.`<module name>`.enabled

Reviewer: @LightGuard 
I perfectly agree with you, I have the impression it is sort of left-over from pre-kogito-times.
@baldimir ?

> a| kie.flyway.modules.`<module name>`.enabled

Reviewer 2: Hi, this is to kie-flyway terminology, not to pre-kogito-times. Each maven artifact (jar) containing a`kie-flyway.properties` is considered a module. The properties configured in that properties look like:

```
module.name=data-index
module.locations.postgresql=...
module.locations.h2=...
```

This config is used by kie-flyway to configure which modules can be skipped from the initial migration, for example:

```
kie.flyway."data-index".enabled=false
```

Turn this property to `false` if a broker has already been installed in the used namespace.
Note that `org.kie.kogito.addons.knative.eventing.sink.++*++` can be used to configure a custom Sink.
If not defined, this auto generated Broker will work as the Sink.
|boolean
|`true`

a|org.kie.kogito.addons.knative.eventing.generate-kogito-source
a|Toggle to generate the Knative https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kogito[`KogitoSource`] instead of a Knative SinkBinding.
`KogitoSource` is a custom `SinkBinding` created specifically to bind with entities within the Kogito ecosystem such as Data Index, Jobs Service, etc.
For minimal configuration and setup, leave this property set to the default of `false`.
|boolean
|`false`

a|org.kie.kogito.addons.knative.eventing.sink.namespace
a|Namespace where the given Knative Sink is deployed.
This sink is used to configure the "sink" property in the generated Knative SinkBinding for this Kogito service.
|string
|

a|org.kie.kogito.addons.knative.eventing.sink.api-version
a|Kubernetes API Version of the given Knative Sink.
This sink is used to configure the "sink" property in the generated Knative SinkBinding for this Kogito service.
|string

> |`eventing.knative.dev/v1`

Reviewer 2: hmm not sure about this one tbh

> |`eventing.knative.dev/v1`

Author: I'm removing (commenting out so we still have it for later if needed) Knative as it isn't supported as part of BAMOE

a|Kubernetes Kind of the given Knative Sink.
This sink is used to configure the "sink" property in the generated Knative SinkBinding for this Kogito service.
|string
|`Broker`

a|kogito.job.recipient.sink.timeout-in-millis
a|Default timeout to execute HTTP requests for the SinkRecipient when the Job's timeout is not configured.
|long
a|5000

a|kogito.job.recipient.sink.max-timeout-in-millis
a|Max accepted timeout to execute HTTP requests for the SinkRecipient when the Job's timeout is configured.
Attempts to surpass this value will result in a validation error at Job creation time.
|long
a|6000

a|kogito.job.recipient.http.timeout-in-millis
a|Default timeout to execute HTTP requests for the HttpRecipient when the Job's timeout is not configured.
|long
a|180000

a|kogito.job.recipient.http.max-timeout-in-millis
a|Max accepted timeout to execute HTTP requests for the HttpRecipient when the Job's timeout is configured.
Attempts to surpass this value will result in a validation error at Job creation time.
|long
a|300000

a|kogito.grpc.enum.includeDefault
a|Indicates if default value of enumerations should be included in grpc response.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.grpc.stream.timeout

> a|Time to wait for response from server when using streams.

Reviewer 2: This is SWF specific, do we have to document it too?

> a|Time to wait for response from server when using streams.

Author: Commenting out GRPC.

|int
|`10`

a|kogito.quarkus.events.threads.queueSize
a|Maximum size of queue to hold incoming events to be processed by threads in the pool.
|int
|`1`

a|kogito.events.processinstances.enabled
a|Toggle enabling publishing of processes instances events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.events.processinstances.errors.propagate
a|Toggle to propagate errors for process instance emitter.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.events.processdefinitions.enabled
a|Toggle to enable publishing processes definition events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.events.processdefinitions.errors.propagate
a|Toggle to propagate errors for process definition emitter.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.events.usertasks.enabled
a|Toggle to enable publishing user task instances events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.events.usertasks.errors.propagate
a|Toggle to propagate errors for user tasks.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.devservices.port
a|Optional port the dev service will listen to.
If not defined, 8180 will be used.
|int
|`8180`

a|kogito.devservices.enabled
a|Toggle to enable DevServices for Kogito.
|boolean
|true

a|kogito.devservices.image-name
a|The Data Index image to use.
|string
|

a|kogito.devservices.shared

> a|Toggle to enable sharing of Quarkus Dev Services.

Reviewer 2: @gitgabrio yes, this is quarkus specific. In my understading it is used to share the data-index started by the Kogito DevServices between different kogito apps (in dev mode).  I think the whole use of the Data Index started by kogito dev services is not recommended for our setup and we are enforcing using the right data-index add-on.

> a|Toggle to enable sharing of Quarkus Dev Services.

Reviewer 2: I think the full name of this propertry is `quarkus.kogito.devservices.shared`

Otherwise, it starts a new container with the `kogito-dev-service-data-index` label set to the specified value.
|string
|`kogito-data-index`

a|kogito.messaging.as-cloudevents
a|Toggle used to enable Cloud Events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.jackson.fail-on-empty-bean
a|Toggle if Jackson will fail on an empty bean.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.addon.messaging.incoming.defaultName
a|Incoming channel default name.
|string
|`kogito_incoming_stream`

a|kogito.addon.messaging.outgoing.defaultName
a|Outgoing channel default name.
|string
|`kogito_outgoing_stream`

a|kogito.codegen.ignoreHiddenFiles
a|Toggle to ignore hidden files when collecting files for code generation.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.codegen.process.failOnError
a|Toggle to fail when there are parsing/validation errors of process assets.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.service.url
a|The service URL needed to connect to the runtime endpoint from outside the service.
|string
|

a|kogito.security.auth.enabled
a|Toggle Enabling the application security context when resolving current User Identity.
|boolean
a|false

a|kogito.security.auth.impersonation.allowed-for-roles

> a|Comma-separated list of roles that allow identity impersonation when resolving the actual User Identity.

Reviewer 2: Traditionally User Tasks REST Endpoints used the user/group query params to generate the user identity (username and roles) that is performing a task operation (transtion, add attachment/comment, modify inputs/outputs...) 

This property works in conjunction with `kie.security.auth.enabled`. If auth is enabled, we are overriding the previous mechanism to use the info from the security context to generate the user identity instead of using the query params.

However, there are some times it is possible that a `super user` has to perform an operation `impersonating` another user (imagine an admin completing a blocked task in behalf of another user). This property allows to configure a comma separated list of roles that are allowed to impersonate other users. 
So, when performing a task operation (with auth enabled) and the user in the app security context belongs to any of the impersonator roles, in this case we will generate the user Identity based on the query params.

For example a good value would be:
```
kogito.security.auth.impersonation.allowed-for-roles=manager,task-admin
``` 
This property has no default value, so no default impersonator groups are defined, this is totally up to the customer to configure it with the roles they want.

> a|Comma-separated list of roles that allow identity impersonation when resolving the actual User Identity.

Reviewer: Thanks @pefernan 
Same comment as https://github.com/IBM/bamoe-docs/pull/165#discussion_r1848181424

> a|Comma-separated list of roles that allow identity impersonation when resolving the actual User Identity.

Author: @pefernan Excellent explanation! It will go into the next commit.

|string
a|

a|kogito.process.instances.limit
a|Maximum number of process instance to be returned by GET api.
|short
|`1000`

a|kogito.devservices.enabled

> a|Toggle to enable Kogito Dev Services.

Reviewer 2: This is to enable or disable the Kogito Dev services in dev mode, which is start an In-memory Data Index container instance. For our use case it is not recommended and we should be using the data-index addon

I think the full property is `quarkus.kogito.devservices.enabled`

> a|Toggle to enable Kogito Dev Services.

Author: Thank you

Dev Services are generally enabled by default, unless there is an existing configuration present.
|boolean
|

a|kogito.workflow.version-strategy
a|Strategy used to resolve a Process version.
|string
a|workflow

a|kogito.workflow.proto.marshaller
a|Toggle to generate Protobuf marshallers for runtime.
|boolean
a|true

a|kogito.workflow.data-index.proto.generation
a|Toggle to generate Protobuf marshallers for Data Index.
|boolean
a|true

a|kogito.persistence.type
a|Database persistence type.
|enum of JDBC, MONGODB, FILESYSTEM, KAFKA, INFINISPAN, or POSTGRESQL
a|

a|kogito.persistence.auto.ddl
a|Toogle to automatically apply database schema changes.
|boolean
a|true

a|kogito.persistence.optimistic.lock
a|Toggle to use optimistic locking in the database.
|boolean
a|false

a|kogito.persistence.query.timeout.millis
a|Query execution timeout in milliseconds.
|long
a|10000

a|kogito.logger.always-include
a|Always include the Workflow debug logger.
By default, this will only be included in dev and test.
Setting this to true will also include the Workflow debug logger in Prod
|boolean
|`false`

a|jbpm.devui.users.<user name>.groups

> a|Groups to which the provided user (specified in the name of the config) belongs.

Reviewer 2: this is used to configure which are the users and groups the dev-ui will be using in the task console to allow testing the process user tasks. <user name> refers to the name of the user, the value of this property should be a comma separated list with the groups for the specified user. 

This users will appear in the dev-ui's Task Inbox in a dropdown so the developer can switch between them and operate with tasks with the selected user identity.

A good example for this property would be:
```
jbpm.devui.users.jdoe.gropups=HR,task-operator
jbpm.devui.users.alice.groups=IT,task-operator,admin
```

> a|Groups to which the provided user (specified in the name of the config) belongs.

Reviewer: Thanks @pefernan for explanation. 
But, what about -> **_groups_** <- themselves ? 
Are those defined elsewhere ?
Or, it is possible to write something like:

`jbpm.devui.users.goofy.groups=ny_own_unreferentiated_group,my_funny_group`

and then the groups will automatically be created/managed ?

> a|Groups to which the provided user (specified in the name of the config) belongs.

Reviewer 2: @gitgabrio @LightGuard  don't have to be defined anywhere else, just in the property as you wrote.
This property is only for testing purposes. So when a developer can test the process execution in in quarkus:dev using the devui. This way, the developer can `impersonate` other users in the Task Inbox and test the user tasks with different users/roles.

> a|Groups to which the provided user (specified in the name of the config) belongs.

Author: Thank you

|List of strings
a|None

a|kogito.dataindex.http.url
a|HTTP port the data index will use to accept incoming requests.
|string
a|http://localhost:$\{quarkus.http.port}

a|kogito.dataindex.ws.url
a|HTTP port the data index websocket will use to accept incoming requests.
|string
a|ws://localhost:$\{quarkus.http.port}

a|kogito.data-index.graphql.ui.always-include
a|Toogle to determine if the GraphQL UI should be enabled.
By default, this is only included if the application is running in dev mode.
|boolean
a|false

a|kogito.data-index.url

> a|URL the data index will use.

Author: I could take a stab at http and ws, but no clue about data-index.url

> a|URL the data index will use.

Reviewer 2: This properties are used to configure data-index urls, for different purposes. Both `kogito.data-index.url` & `kogito.dataindex.http.url` are the same, and actually I'm tempted to say that we should consolidate them into a single property.

I think (based on the context where I found those props)`kogito.dataindex.http.url` & `kogito.dataindex.ws.url` were intended to be used to configure the data-index clients in any of the apps/services in the kogito umbrella (for example consoles or the kogito runtime if using the process-svg-addon). 
* `kogito.dataindex.http.url` is mainly used to connect the runtime (with svg addon) to data-index
*  `kogito.dataindex.ws.url`  I seen it in the examples but I have not clue about how it is used.

h|Type
h|Default
a|kogito.quarkus.events.threads.poolSize
a|Maximum number of threads to handle incoming events by channel.
// Available for both Quarkus and SpringBoot
|int
|`10`

a|kogito.quarkus.events.threads.queueSize
a|Maximum size of queue to hold incoming events to be processed by threads in the pool.
// Available for both Quarkus and SpringBoot
|int
|`1`

a|kogito.events.processinstances.enabled
a|Toggle enabling publishing of processes instances events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.events.processinstances.errors.propagate
a|Toggle to propagate errors for process instance emitter.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.events.processdefinitions.enabled
a|Toggle to enable publishing processes definition events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.events.processdefinitions.errors.propagate
a|Toggle to propagate errors for process definition emitter.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.events.usertasks.enabled
a|Toggle to enable publishing user task instances events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.events.usertasks.errors.propagate
a|Toggle to propagate errors for user tasks.
|boolean
|`false`
|===

==== DevServices

Kogito DevServices function only when a Kogito Quarkus application is in dev mode.

> Enabling DevServices starts an in-memory Data Index container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When DevServices are enabled, if there's no Data-Index add-on present, Kogito will spin up a supporting in-memory Data-Index Container.
```

|===

==== Messaging

[cols="7,4,^,^"]
|===
^h|Property Name
^h|Description
h|Type
h|Default

a|kogito.messaging.as-cloudevents
a|Toggle used to enable Cloud Events.
|boolean
|`true`

a|kogito.addon.cloudevents.kafka.kogito_incoming_stream
a|Kafka topic to listen to use for incoming CloudEvents.
|string
|

a|kogito.addon.cloudevents.kafka.kogito_outgoing_stream
a|Kafka topic to post to use for outgoing CloudEvents.
|string
|

a|kogito.jackson.fail-on-empty-bean
a|Toggle if Jackson will fail on an empty bean.
|boolean
|`false`

a|kogito.addon.messaging.incoming.defaultName
a|Incoming channel default name.
|string
|`kogito_incoming_stream`

a|kogito.addon.messaging.outgoing.defaultName
a|Outgoing channel default name.
|string
|`kogito_outgoing_stream`
|===

==== Security

Security for a User Task executed through a REST endpoint uses the user/group query parameters to generate the user identity (username and roles) that is used during task operation.
However, there are times when a superuser needs to "impersonate" a different user.
For example, an admin completing a blocked task on behalf of another user.
These two configuration properties enable this "impersonating" to happen.

> Firstly, the `kogito.security.auth.enabled` proper must be set to true.

Reviewer: Ouch!
`proper`

Author: Got it, thanks!
